# Quiz Game using Tkinter & OpenTDB API
## Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/6vsKBf4Ixuk
### Brief Description:
The project is a quiz game built with Python using a graphical user interface (GUI) by utilizing the Tkinter library. It fetches data such as questions, answers, and, incorrect answers from Open Trivia Database (OpenTDB) API. The questions are customized based on the preferences of the user, including the level of difficulty (easy, medium, hard), quiz type (multiple choice or true/false), and the number of questions (maximum of 50) by using HTTP get request.

### Functionalities:
The program starts off by asking the user their preferences on what type of quiz they want the game to be. These specifications are then collected from the GUI by using the get method. After acquiring these specifications set by the user for their quiz, it is then passed in as an input for the fetch_questions function of the project. This parameterized function inputs the difficulty, type, and number of questions that the user wants. However, if the input for the number of questions is not a number or exceeds 50. An error message will pop up, prompting the user to input a valid number again. This is done by using the messagebox from the tkinter library. These inputs are then stored in a dictionary called params as values for the keys "difficulty", "type", and "amount", respectively. The params dictionary are then passed in for the params function of the requests.get together with the url ("https://opentdb.com/api.php") to store that data in a variable called response and storing its JSON equivalent to a variable called data.

Depending on the quiz type provided by the user, different parameterized functions will be called that accepts the data variable as an input:

If the user picks multiple choice, this sends a value of "multiple" to the key "type" from the params dictionary, which calls the multiple_choice function, gathering the question, correct answer, and incorrect answers from the data collected from the API by looping through it. Before assigning the data to a particular variable, the HTML entities from them are first converted into string or plain text using html.unescape. These collected data are then stored in a dictionary as values for the keys "question", "answer", and "options" (a list that includes both correct and incorrect answers, which are shuffled using the random library to avoid repetition of the answer's position). This dictionary is then appended in a list called quiz which is being returned by the multiple_choice function.

If the user picks true or false, this sets the value of key "type" into "boolean" from the params dictionary, which calls the true_false function, gathering the question and correct answer from the collected data from the API by looping through it. Before assigning the data to a particular variable, the HTML entities from them are first converted into string or plain text using html.unescape. These collected data are then stored in a dictionary as values for the keys "question" and "answer", together with the key "options" having ["True", "False"] as values. This dictionary is then appended in a list called quiz which is being returned by the true_false function.

After calling either multiple_choice or true_false function and returning their values, the game continues by calling the show_question function which allows for the updating of GUI to display the current question, quiz progress ("Question 3 of 5"), and their score (depending on the correct answer/s that they have). The quiz questions presented come from the questions list created by the returned value from either multiple_choice or true_false functions. The current question is displayed using a Label from tkinter, formatted to wrap and be centered visually. For the answer options, the function creates a new Frame from tkinter by looping through the options from the current question. Whether from the four shuffled multiple-choice options or the two options of true or false. A button is created from each option, having the text from the current option, and a command that triggers the check_answer function.

The check_answer function is a parameterized function that inputs the selected answer of the user by clicking the button that they think is right. It compares it with the correct answer stored from the question dictionary. If the user's answer is the same to the correct answer from the dictionary, the score is incremented and it pop ups a message saying “✅ Correct!” using the messagebox from tkinter. if the answer is wrong, the program shows the correct answer to the user using the messagebox once again (f"🚨 The correct answer is: {correct_answer}").

Whether the user is correct or not, the current_question index is being incremented. If the current question is less than the length of the questions that the user inputted earlier, it will call the show_question function again and again. If all the questions have been answered, the program will call the show_result function. The show_result function displays the final message box which summarizes the user's performance by showing them the total of their scores based on their correct answers over the total number of questions ("Your final score: 3/5"). After showing the results, it calls the setup_widgets function again, resetting the game back to its initial state, allowing the user to start another quiz with new preferences.

Lastly, the main function which initializes the main window by assigning Tk() to a variable called window. It then calls setup_widgets function to start the program screen with the quiz specifications. The main function also calls the main loop by using the window variable for allowing the GUI to respond to the user interactions.


